Disclaimer: if you want to try this, please get a chip flasher like a ch341a to flash the bios and recover it if anything goes wrong!

My laptop is the HP 15-dw1036ne (amazing name) with BIOS version F.68

HP's bios throws a "BIOS Corruption Detected" message if any modification is detected in the BIOS.

and I couldn't find anyone that unlocked my laptop's bios, so I decided to give Claude Code my bios dump and a few tools for it to try to unlock my bios. and it did!

the rest of this post is written by claude... with a python script at the end that modifies the bios file, which i've tried with my laptop but it might work with similar hp models!

Tools used
Ghidra (via GhidrAssistMCP): reading and disassembling the BIOS drivers, finding the tab-blocklist function and the signature-check code

https://github.com/symgraph/GhidrAssistMCP

UEFITool / UEFIExtract / UEFIFind: pulled the BIOS image apart into its driver files

Unicorn Engine: ran the extracted signature-check function on its own, outside the real BIOS, against valid and corrupt signatures before flashing real hardware

Capstone: decoded instructions during that emulated test

cryptography (Python library): generated valid test signatures so the emulated check ran against genuine crypto, not fake data

Python (custom scripts): scanned for constants and function calls Ghidra's own analysis missed

Finding #1: RSA-2048 DXE-FV signature check bypass
HP/Compal sign the whole compressed DXE firmware volume with a detached RSA-2048 signature. Touch a single byte in that volume on stock firmware and you get a "BIOS corruption detected" screen and a refusal to boot.

The verifier is itself LZMA-compressed, so it doesn't show up on a raw byte scan of the flash image; it only exists post-decompression. Its verify function has this tail in both the SHA-256 and SHA-1 code paths:

CALL  RsaVerifyCore
TEST  AL, AL
JNZ   ok          ; verify passed
MOV   EBX, 0x8000001a   ; verify FAILED
ok:
RET
One-byte patch: JNZ (0x75) to JMP (0xEB). The function now always returns success, regardless of what the RSA math decided, without touching the key or signature.

Finding #2: 55 hidden Setup fields
A bunch of Setup fields are compiled into SetupUtility's IFR forms but gated behind hardcoded boolean constants (SuppressIf{True} / GrayOutIf{True}). Flip the constant byte (TRUE 0x46 to FALSE 0x47) and the field appears. 27 SuppressIf + 28 GrayOutIf occurrences, 55 total, one byte each.

Finding #3: Advanced / Power / Debug / Boot tabs
FormBrowser.efi decides which tabs show up, and it hides four of them: Advanced, Power, Debug, Boot. The check behind that hiding always comes back negative on this hardware.

One-byte patch: flip that check so it always comes back positive instead. Advanced, Power, Debug, and Boot all show up now.

Mod script
Python script that takes your own stock dump and reproduces all three patches. This is what produced the image I use on my laptop:

https://files.catbox.moe/gq0uk4.py

hope this is useful to someone out there!

edit: new link for the script
